---
title: Atlas Edit Monthly Cycle Proposal (AEP-9) - April 14, 2025
summary: This Atlas Edit Proposal aims to implement a staking mechanism for Sky holders by directing a fixed portion of surplus funds to staked tokens on a weekly basis.
discussion_link: https://forum.sky.money/t/aep-9-begin-returning-income-to-sky-holders-via-staking/26177
parameters:
    input_format:
        type: single-choice
        abstain: [0]
    victory_conditions:
        - {
            type: 'and',
            conditions: [
                { type : plurality },
                { type : comparison, comparator : '>=', value: 10000 }
            ]
        }
        - {type : default, value : 2 }
    result_display: single-vote-breakdown
version: v2.0.0
options:
   0: Abstain
   1: Yes
   2: No
start_date: 2025-04-14T16:00:00
end_date: 2025-04-28T16:00:00
---
# Atlas Edit Monthly Cycle Proposal (AEP-9) - April 14, 2025

The Governance Facilitators have placed an [Atlas Edit Monthly Cycle Proposal](https://sky-atlas.powerhouse.io/A.1.11.2_Atlas_Edit_Monthly_Cycle/430185a5-fa5d-4664-89cf-21c9e6cfc109%7C0db3326e) into the [voting system](https://vote.makerdao.com/polling). This Governance Poll will be active for fourteen days beginning on Monday, April 14 at 16:00 UTC.

**This is a binary vote.**

- **You may vote for a single option.**
- **You should vote for the option which you prefer.**
- **If you would accept either option, you should vote 'Abstain'.**

## Review

The community may vote in this poll to express support or opposition to the following Atlas Edit Weekly Cycle Proposal:

- [Atlas Edit Pull Request](https://github.com/makerdao/next-gen-atlas/pull/82)
- [Proposal Discussion Thread](https://forum.sky.money/t/aep-9-begin-returning-income-to-sky-holders-via-staking/26177)

A brief summary of this Atlas Edit has been provided by the Author and is shown below:

*Sky initiated token burning aka repurchases spending around $500,000 daily (more or less) to buyback Sky tokens to put pressure on Sky’s market price. While Sky holders benefit from this, it is my belief that the benefit is much less than if that $500,000 daily was given back to Sky holders. After all, much of the supply of Sky is lost, held on exchanges, or otherwise not held by active Sky participants. In addition, the market price of Sky is not solely determined by the defi market. ERC-20 tokens in general follow ETH prices and the market with purchases/sales often having little effect on price especially as there are other markets such as exchanges as well as MEV bots that capture the spending.*

*It is my belief that by narrowing the benefit to active Sky holders who stake their tokens with Sky (likely around 20% of supply amounting to $250 million), we can greatly increase the benefit to us holders and generate hype/demand that will lead to a larger surge in price than if we bought tokens via burning. I think a great example is ETH post EIP-1559, the core developers believed that burning would lead to ETH price going 2x or more, but decreased supply had little effect on the market and instead the price crashed.*

*While $500,000 a day (182.5 million a year) is not sustainable, I believe Sky price will surge up depending on what we pay until APR is around 5-10%. Likely closer to 5%. At 5%, this is $12.5 million a year or $34,246 a day. I am thus proposing that we direct 0.5% of the Sky surplus towards Sky stakers each week to be paid out of the course of the following week. This ensures that bills will continue to be paid as the lower the treasury the less that stakers are paid. Based on current numbers this will mean $520,000 is paid to stakers in the first week and likely this amount will remain steady. I realize there are future proposals/plans coming from Rune as to how staking will work, but I believe this is a good system in the interim that will maintain Sky price (and realistically pump it) and reward loyal Sky holders.*

*By my very general/guesstimate math, $27,114,285 will be paid out over the year if that amount holds steady, at 5% that leads to nearly a 2.2x increase in token price. I’d also propose that no more than 10% of Sky staked this way be allowed to be borrowed against due to the risk of liquidation, but I’ll leave it to others to figure that out as I know it’s a contentious issue. As burning was done without an AEP (I believe) I haven’t included an Atlas edit to stop it. Let me know if that’s needed as part of this or if I can just include it here.*

*I’ve changed it from Sealing to Staking due to the KISS rule. By using terms people recognize we can increase adoption and reduce confusion. My goal here as a SKY token holder is to make my SKY more desired by others so that the price goes up and to make holding SKY more beneficial to me by receiving a share of the income generated by SKY. Let me know if over the week hourly is the best method of distribution or if there is a better way to break it down?*

## Outcomes

This poll implements a **Minimum Positive Participation** value. The Minimum Positive Participation for Atlas Edit Weekly Cycle Proposals is currently set to **10,000 MKR**.

**If the votes for the 'Yes' option exceed the votes for the 'No' option AND the votes for the 'Yes' option equal or exceed 10,000 MKR, then the following action will be taken:**

- The associated Pull Request will be merged into The Atlas.

---

## Resources

If you are new to voting in the Sky Protocol, please see the [voting guide](https://manual.makerdao.com/governance/voting-in-makerdao/on-chain-governance) to learn how voting works.

Additional information about the Governance process can be found in the [Operational Manual](https://manual.makerdao.com).

To add current and upcoming votes to your calendar, please see the [Sky Governance Calendar](https://manual.makerdao.com/makerdao/calendars/governance-calendar).
