# DISCLAIMERS TO PROPOSALS AND RISK REPORTS

The work of this proposal and/or report is part of the mandate of the Interim Risk Team, which was voted into its role as such through a [governance vote by MKR holders](https://vote.makerdao.com/polling-proposal/qmpvhtcjxpm6wxs1cnq4bjc31d5egbyyd2k4ejotbtmhmt) on September 9, 2019. By ratification of the vote, MKR holders have granted permission to the Interim Risk Team and the Maker Ecosystem Growth Foundation (“Foundation”) to provide research material for governance proposals in a temporary capacity. This material is for MKR holders only. The sole purpose of the material is to provide public knowledge sharing and discussion around risk management of the Maker Protocol, and creates no fiduciary obligations or any other legal responsibilities on behalf of the Interim Risk Team or the Foundation and any of its subsidiaries or affiliates to MKR holders or any other person or entity.

Statements made in this report or proposal are forward-looking, which may include without limitation expressions of opinion regarding anticipated risks and how those risks may be mitigated. These statements are not guarantees of future performance or outcomes and and therefore should not be relied upon. Such forward-looking statements necessarily involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties, and actual performance and results in future periods may differ materially from any projections of future performance or results expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements.

This material is based on current public information that the Interim Risk Team and the Foundation consider reliable, but neither the Interim Risk Team, the Foundation nor any of its subsidiaries or affiliates represents that the information is accurate or complete, and it should not be relied on as such. The Interim Risk Team, the Foundation or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates may update this material, but are under no obligation to do so. Reports may contain hyperlinks to third-party websites, which are provided for reader convenience only. Neither the Interim Risk Team, the Foundation nor any of its subsidiaries or affiliates endorses the content nor is responsible for the accuracy or security controls of these websites.

Any information in regards to digital assets or other financial instruments, including without limitation, proposals for risk parameters, analysis of digital assets or other financial instruments, should not be construed as investment advice by the Interim Risk Team, the Foundation or its subsidiaries or affiliates, or as a solicitation of an offer to buy or sell these digital assets or other financial instruments.

AS A PARTICIPANT IN THE MAKER PROTOCOL, OR ANOTHER USER OF THIS MATERIAL, YOU DISCLAIM ANY AND ALL LIABILITY AGAINST THE INTERIM RISK TEAM, THE FOUNDATION AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES AND AFFILIATES FOR CONTENT IN THIS MATERIAL, INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION, RISK ANALYSIS OF INDIVIDUAL DIGITAL ASSETS AND OTHER FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS OR THE MAKER PROTOCOL AS AS WHOLE, RECOMMENDATIONS AND PROPOSALS FOR CHANGES TO THE MAKER PROTOCOL OR WITH RESPECT TO INDIVIDUAL DIGITAL ASSETS OR OTHER FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS.

IF YOU CHOOSE TO PARTICIPATE IN VOTING IN THE GOVERNANCE PROCESS, YOU REPRESENT AND WARRANT THAT YOU HAVE DONE YOUR OWN INDEPENDENT RESEARCH AND MAKE ALL DECISIONS BASED ON YOUR OWN RESEARCH AND IN YOUR OWN CAPACITY AS A MKR HOLDER. YOU ARE ALSO AT LIBERTY TO SUBMIT ALTERNATIVE PROPOSALS TO THE GOVERNANCE PROCESS SHOULD YOUR OPINION BE DIFFERENT FROM THAT PRESENTED BY THE INTERIM RISK TEAM OR ANY OTHER PROPOSAL PUT FORTH BY PARTICIPANTS IN THE MAKER PROTOCOL.

THEREFORE, YOU HOLD HARMLESS THE INTERIM RISK TEAM, THE FOUNDATION AND ANY OF ITS SUBSIDIARIES OR AFFILIATES FOR ANY AND ALL RESEARCH, RISK ANALYSIS, OPINIONS, RECOMMENDATIONS, OR PROPOSALS PRESENTED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO ANY CONSEQUENTIAL, INCIDENTAL, INDIRECT, SPECIAL OR PUNITIVE DAMAGES, SUCH AS BUT NOT LIMITED TO LOSS OF FUTURE REVENUE, INCOME OR PROFITS, DIMINUTION OF VALUE OR LOSS OF BUSINESS REPUTATION OR OPPORTUNITY RELATING TO INFORMATION OR PROPOSALS PROVIDED BY THE INTERIM RISK TEAM, WHETHER OR NOT THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES HAS BEEN DISCLOSED TO THE OTHER PARTY IN ADVANCE OR COULD HAVE BEEN REASONABLY FORESEEN BY SUCH OTHER PARTY.
