# Community Meetups

We believe that a healthy and robust community is incredibly important to MakerDAO and plays a valuable role in building a long-lasting and strong ecosystem. The Community Development Group wants to provide the resources you need, as an active community member, to host your very own MakerDAO oriented meetup. These meetups are meant to be a resource for anyone interested in integrating themselves into the MakerDAO community, as well as educational opportunities for people to learn more about MakerDAO. Building up the community and increasing Dai adoption will help us bring stability and financial inclusion to the underbanked. To do this, the we are making available a microgranting program dedicated to helping community members facilitate meetups in their local communities.

In-person meetups are perfect for creating deeper relationships with members of the community. Whether offering question-and-answer sessions, demos, presentations, or time to network, meetups can spark a host of conversations, insights, and questions that might have never surfaced through other ways. They are the perfect tool for newcomers, and people generally unfamiliar with the project, as well as for seasoned professionals who are interested in diving deeper in the MakerDAO technology.

Please have a look at our [Meetup Kit](meetup-diy-kit.md) if you are interested in hosting an event in your community. The kit contains a wealth of information about how to organize a successful event and how to apply for a MakerDAO microgrant. If you have suggestions for how we can make the Meetup Kit better reach out to us on the [\#community-development](https://chat.makerdao.com/channel/community-development) channel in our rocketchat.

