# Mandated Actors Meeting

2020.10.13

## Participants

- LongForWisdom
- Lucas Manuel
- Charles St. Louis
- Amy Jung
- Christopher Mooney
- Brian McMichael
- Wil Barnes
- Nik Kunkel
- Juan Guillen

# October Cycle

- ETHB by end of week
- PAXG, BAL, YFI by Friday 30th (tentative timeline)
- GUSD Sometime in October? Might be pushed if Liq2.0 is too complex.
- UNI/ LEND and LP Tokens (aiming for November)

## Oracles

- PAXG, BAL, YFI in testing, begin Feed update deployment on the 20th
  - Earliest October 27th for earliest executive vote
- ETHB soon
- UNI wouldn't be going into executive until early November

### Potential Timeline

ETH-B (mid October)
GUSD (mid October)

YFI (late October)
BAL (late October)
PAXG (late October)

UNI (early November)
LEND (early November)

Oracles is not bottleneck in LEND / AAVE, so it's possible to implement LEND sooner

## Smart Contracts

- GUSD & ETHB by November.
- Smart contracts can deploy in Kovan for BAL, YFI.
- How long to check oracles in Kovan (by EOD).
- ETHB: Looking at this Friday (16th).
- Cmooney: Maybe GUSD this week or the next.
- Probably no time for PAXG, unless SamM can work on it.

## Risk

- GUSD is almost done. Might propose lower DC.
- Aave is done, but hasn't fully migrated.
- Done with ranking in prioritization sheet, but has forked it to potentially avoid bias.
- UMA, other LP tokens, and Farm assets like yUSD and cDAI is high on the list.
- We have enough collateral to work on.

## LP Tokens

- Work has been done cleaning up Oracles Smart Contracts. Want internal review.
- Brian can take a look once it's ready.
- Unofficial reviews.
- Can have LP tokens as soon as early next month lowering debt ceilings until audits come back.

## Prioritization Framework

- Primož' team focused on _greenlit_ assets (not queued or deferred). Should have it done end of week.
- Lucas created [https://github.com/makerdao/deployed-collateral-contracts/tree/add-collateral-from-spreadsheet](https://github.com/makerdao/deployed-collateral-contracts/tree/add-collateral-from-spreadsheet)
- All teams can have it filled in by end of the week / Friday.
- Ready to publish by Monday as is.
- Once the sheet is live and when people comment on it, these calls could be used to address or decide as a group.
- Who hosts and keeps it? It's good to keep multiple for redundancy.
  - Amy, LFW, and Juan will keep multiple copies
  - It may not need to live in Google Sheets in the future

## Other Notes

- Collateral call for renBTC & Uniswap.

# G&R Call

### DSChief Contract

We could potentially have a quick presentation about it.

### Liquidations 2.0

- Kurt is working on liquidations 2.0.
- Potential presentation on Thursday.
- Call this coming Wednesday.

## Further Decentralizing

- It's always good to check with someone that has aggregated information.
  - Might not always be possible
- Should there be a grace period for a community member picking up a task?
  - As we decentralize and we have multiple domain teams dropping a task might become a problem.

### Scaling People

Getting qualified people to contribute long-term for Maker.

- Consensys sales a course as a training recruitment tool
- Maker Olympics: where there are challenges for people to unlock and get medals
- Long-term incentives: RTU for outside contributors?
