# Mandated Actors Meeting

2020.08.18

## Participants

- Mariano Conti
- Cyrus Younessi
- LongForWisdom
- Niklas Kunkel
- Wil Barnes
- Charles St. Louis
- Juan Guillen (notes)

# Notes

## Collateral

### Plans for This Month

Risk evaluations to be submitted today:

- PAXUSD
- USDT

### Plans for Next Month

- LRC resubmission
  - currently a signal request to consider the resubmission timeline to gauge community interest.
  - Could be included in the September cycle.
  - it can be resubmitted up to 3 times without big changes.
- PAXG
- COMP

### In the pipeline (for October)

- It might be too early to start thinking about other collateral types right now.
- Working on ETH-B.

### Oracles Work

Next months collateral types are into the release for this month, going out today. Way ahead of schedule.

---

## Governance

### Next G&R Meeting

### Wil - MIP15

- [ ] Wil to do a brief presentation about MIP15.

### Chris Mooney - Liquidations 1.2

- [ ] Chris to do a brief presentation about Liquidations 1.2.

### Governance Polls

USDT, PAXUSD.

- [ ] PR for poll wording once that the evaluations are good to go.

---

## MIPs

### MIPs Executive: Live on Monday

- MIP7 subproposal: Rich's Offboarding
- Akiva's Declaration of Intent (MIP13 subproposal)

### MIP7

- We might need to make an amendment to onboard more team members.
  - This would need to be ratified by MKR holders.
  - LongForWisdom + Charles working on this.
- In an ideal scenario Wil to be onboarded within next month's cycle.

### Oracles MIPs Set

MIP10 divided in 4.

- 2 for weekly, 2 for monthly.

There will be an update for September's cycle.

Also, an initiative to create a MIP Index, similar to Collateral Index, to check the status of each MIP.

As a part of the comm-devs portal, there will be [MIPs.makerdao.com](http://mips.makerdao.com) with status and details of the MIPs to educate people about it.

---

## Other Topics

### Primoz Kordez to start coming to the Mandated Actors Meeting calls.
