# Mandated Actors Meeting

2020.07.28

## Participants

- Mariano Conti
- Cyrus Younessi
- LongForWisdom
- Niklas Kunkel
- Wil Barnes
- Primoz Kordez
- Charles St. Louis
- Juan Guillen (notes)

# Notes

## 1. TUSD Post in the Forum

[TUSD Update: TrustToken Response to Implementation Concerns](https://forum.makerdao.com/t/tusd-update-trusttoken-response-to-implementation-concerns/3407)

_Post by Rafael (CEO of TrustToken)_

Mariano:

- There has been some discussions within the team. The TUSD team seems to be going in the right direction. The changes should make the code more comprehensible. We could propose a list of changes, or leave the community decide whether we should proceed or not.
- At the moment, TUSD is onboarded. It's about whitelisting the implementation. If the community wants to go with it, we can do it.
- [ ] Someone from Mariano's team to give point of view, from Smart Contract perspective.

## 2. Governance and Risk Meeting Agenda

### MIP17

Charles:

- Just had a meeting with a working group around MIP17. I'm going to create a forum post with the pros / cons that were surfaced for everyone to see.
- It's been decided to split the MIP in two:
  - One MIP for the Debt Ceiling.
  - Propose a further one for the Risk Premium adjustment.

Planet_X will collaborate, which is good news.

- [ ] TBC: Charles will provide a quick update during the Governance & Risk call on Thursday.

## 3 Collateral News & Communicating

Wil:

- PAXG is greenlit.
  - The Smart Contracts team is trying to offload this to the community.
- We should be able to advance what we're going to work on in the coming months so that the community can comment on it.

Cyrus:

- The more we can communicate, the better. Especially if we want to move towards decentralization (more EPCs for the DAO).

LongForWisdom:

- As for the Centrifuge contract, you probably don't want someone without the expertise reviewing that.

## 2. Polls next week

Charles:

- TUSD poll (`DC` to zero), if it passes, it should be in the exec on Friday.

Nik Kunkel:

- [MyCrypto proposal as a light feed](https://forum.makerdao.com/t/mip10c14-sp6-proposal-appoint-mycrypto-as-a-light-feed/3383). We'll most likely need it the week after.

Cyrus:

- Depending on the utilization of the `DC`, it would make sense to plan a larger `DC` increase. Maybe 30 ~ 40 M tranches. If the `DC` evaporates tomorrow... I don't think it will last another 10 days.
- At some point I'll put 60 ~ 80 M increase.
- USDC still has room.
- BAT I don't think we should be changing that at the moment.

### Summary of Polls

- [ ] TUSD → if it passes
- [ ] WBTC → there's an on-chain poll, which is winning. So it will be in an executive.
- [ ] ETH-A will need a poll.

ETH-B → being discussed.

MKR → as collateral being discussed.

### Process

Nik:

- As for the Light Feeds we want a week's time visibility for the community. Is it week from application date or a week from report?
- It should be from the report.

## 3. Peg

Cyrus:

- Peg is getting bad again. I was expecting the drop to last longer. All these new farms are not even Dai-denominated. ETH is in a bull market.

Nik:

- COMP has crashed. The gas is going up. It's surprising that there's no more peg relief.

## 4. Next Month's Collateral Types

Cyrus:

- Loopring (LRC) → Yes.
- PaxUSD →Yes.
- LINK → Maybe. Might not be ready on time for the MIP cycle (review from the Risk team).
- Tether → Maybe.

### Discussion - PAXUSD

Wil:

I took a look at PAXUSD. It should be ready to go.

- [ ] Wil to talk to team and try to get Tether as well. He'll let us know on Saturday.

### Discussion - Tether

Cyrus:

- We haven't started with Tether yet.
- I don't love the idea of shooting for 3 and include Tether as well...
- Are we going to do a deep fundamental analysis on what Tether is? What you see is what you get.
- They admitted they were unbacked, and no one cared. Since that, I just assume it's not that big of a big deal for the community. I don't think we should treat it more specially than any other token.
- We'll put ~ 5 million as `DC`, to limit risk.

Nik:

- Tether is probably one that we shouldn't rush.

Mariano:

- Everyone uses it. Curve uses it. Why is the community shunning it?

Nik:

- It's about being ready. If the Oracles analysis and the Smart Contract analysis are done and we're just waiting on an external risk report, we only need to compile the MIP12 and we can move faster.

## MIPs

### MIP10

Charles:

- Working with Nik.

### MIP12

Charles:

- On the amendment that was proposed, much was about the monthly cycle and MIP17. But MIP17 was opposed.
  - Since a lot is crucial for the MIP monthly cycle, I'll remove everything MIP17 related and "repost" the monthly cycle items.
- Let's not overcomplicate things and put forward the proposal.

### DC Adjustment MIP

- Inclusion of `DC` adjustment MIP
- With 8 days left, we might get it into this coming MIP cycle, depending on the involvement of the team behind it. But it might get postponed to next month.
