# Mandated Actors Meeting

2020.07.14

## Participants

- Mariano Conti
- Cyrus Younessi
- LongForWisdom
- Niklas Kunkel
- Wil Barnes
- Rich Brown
- Charles St. Louis
- Juan Guillen (notes)

## Notes

### 1. **Hello Juan!**

- Quick intro.

### 2. **PSM Implementation**

- LongForWisdom has shared a timeline.
- 31st of July is the soft date.
- We need to check to see what's doable, hopefully someone from Mariano's team can check it out.
- We need to know which parameters governance can realistically set for launch.
- [ ] Mariano to set someone from his team to take care of it.

### 3. **ETH-A Debt Ceiling**

- Cyrus Younessi:
  - The biggest fear or people is that they have to wait another week if it doesn't go through. Last time it fell through. Once it gets hit we should put a poll, as it might not make it to Friday.
  - MIP17: we're not entirely sure of how it interacts with this yet.
  - It might be better to do it as a one-off, as PSM might impact any scaling of this initiative.
- LongForWisdom: preemptively should be better than at a random time of the week.
- [ ] Cyrus Younessi: put a forum poll for a delayed executive.

### 4. **Do we know which collateral is planned for the August cycle yet?**

- **[CS] Initial considerations were:Â paxusd, link, LRC, HUSD, Tether, renBTC**

**Stablecoins**

- Cyrus Younessi: stablecoins to be added (for PSM or else).
- Niklas Kunkel: from an oracles perspective, all stablecoins will be one, so it depends on verification.
- Mariano Conti: a lot of time on TUSD. This is upgradeable token. Each upgrade is fairly big. We're hoping Thursday SC team will do a recommendation, hopefully DC low. Might take a long time to review these.
- Cyrus Younessi: is there an expectation of assessment of stablecoins before PSM?
  - Wil Barnes: there should be some kind of assessment.
  - Cyrus Younessi: In favor of doing the assessment. Looking for clarity.
  - Wil Barnes: more for technical assessment, not risk.
- LongForWisdom: USDC seems obvious. PAX might be in the pipeline.
  - Cyrus Younessi: those two seem fine to onboard.
  - Cyrus Younessi: Are we going to do Paxos as a colleteral type if it will end up in PSM?
  - Mariano Conti: Paxos - we need to look at the code.

**Non-Stablecoins**

- Cyrus Younessi: for sure this month **LINK** and **loopring**. We'll target a few more. Also it's the first month we onboard an independent risk team, so it's also a good test.
- Niklas Kunkel: renBTC is tricky to do in a safe way. (We could do it as we did with LEND). Hopes to delay it to do it the best possible way, and avoiding (further) setting a precedent that _unsafe_ oracles are the norm.
- Charles St. Louis: the other non-stable are Bancor and Ampleforth.
  - Cyrus Younessi: we're considering Bancor and MATIC. Ampleforth has SC considerations.
    - Mariano Conti: it's not only the price change. Also the supply of the currency fluctuates.
- Cyrus Younessi: COMP was the last one that's being considered.

**USDC-A**

- Niklas Kunkel: will PSM replace USDC-A? Do people want to keep their USDC?
  - Cyrus Younessi: Their's definitely a difference. First impression is that collateral types need not to be deprecated in favor of PSM.

### 5. **Domain Greenlights on assets that have passed their CG greenlight polls.**

- LongForWisdom: There's a list of the greenlights that need to be done on the collateral list. Can a paragraph be written about it?

  - Mariano Conti: how many? We're quite busy at the moment.
  - LongForWisdom: currently 8.

- [Collateral Status Index - Forum Thread](https://forum.makerdao.com/t/collateral-status-index/2231)

### 6. **Someone to talk about MIP17 in governance and risk meeting?**

- [ ] Charles St. Louis to make a presentation. LongForWisdom also to help if necessary. (Rune's gone this week.)

### 7. Next Governance & Risk Meeting

- [ ] Wil Barnes to present on Thursday
- [ ] Mariano Conti to present 5 minutes on TUSD (or maybe Lucas)
  - hopefully before there will be a forum post
