# Mandated Actors Meeting

2020.09.15

## Participants

- LongForWisdom
- Niklas Kunkel
- Wil Barnes
- Charles St. Louis
- Primoz Kordez
- Amy Jung
- Christopher Mooney
- Brian McMichael
- Lucas Manuel
- Juan Guillen (notes)

# Notes

### Objective of the Meeting

Mainly coordinating issues.
Also helpful for preparing G&R call.

# Collateral Types

### Polls

- COMP & LINK passing
- TUSD passing
- LRC passing

### Coming Up

We could include ETH-B in the weekly cycle, since the collateral is already being used.

### Changing the Cycle

Brief discussion about changing collateral types to weekly instead of monthly, to provide more flexibility.

Might throw off the planning in the short term, but potentially good.

Agility is a key point in favour.

Possibility of establishing a regular weekly cadence of collateral onboarding.

- One week to onboard the collateral to the test environment
- The next week to deploy to mainnet.
- While one collateral is being tested, the next should be getting deployed.
- [ ] Domain Teams to discuss and choose on one.

### Prioritization Framework

This will allow to choose the collateral type that will have the most impact.
[Collateral Status Index](https://forum.makerdao.com/t/collateral-status-index/2231) is not fully doing that.

- [ ] Charles (Juan to assist) to start working on it.

### Collateral Onboarding Grants

Will allow for community members to help and get involved. Maybe we should hold the release until being sure of the process (weekly or monthly) we want to follow to avoid confusion.

# Fixing the Peg

101 LR is winning, even if one whale just voted for "No change".

Probably a proposal to raise the DC by 200~300 million. This is based on the estimation of the arbitrage needed to fix.

This will potentially lead to a half-a-billion exposure to stablecoins.

How do you diversify risk among stable coins?

- USDC-A
- PAXUSD
- TUSD

It can be increased more if it's decided that fixing the peg is more important than limiting the exposure.

Executive coming out on Friday. We have time to decide until Thursday.
