# Mandated Actors Meetings

2020.08.25

## Participants

- Cyrus Younessi
- LongForWisdom
- Niklas Kunkel
- Wil Barnes
- Charles St. Louis
- Mariano Conti
- Primoz Kordez
- Juan Guillen (notes)

# Notes

## Welcome (again) Primoz!

## LEND / AAVE

- Still 2 weeks until we have to submit the application for the September cycle.
  - Might have to be pushed to October if not ready.
- We already have access to the contracts.
- _Tokenomics_ is different.
- Oracles is ready. It should be trivial to review.
- From the Risk Team, there's a heavier review needed.
- It makes sense that the Smart Contracts team gets a head start analyzing it.

## G&R Meeting

### Potential Effects of yEarn Delegated ETH Vault

- Depending on the level of detail we want to give, it might make sense to have Risk present instead of Smart Contracts.
- Cross-discipline topic as a Discussion.

### New Collateral Types

- It would be valuable to mention the collateral types we're working on during the call, instead of waiting for the day before.
- Info is already public in the Collateral Status Index.

### MIPs

Maybe for the following calls we could get someone to talk about the

- MIPs that are being worked on (such as Declaration of Intent, etc)
- Matthew Rabinowitz or Centrifuge to talk about their submissions on real-world assets.

## Polls for next week

- tBTC Oracle Whitelisting ETH/BTC

## Mariano's Replacement

- Hopefully this week it will be ratified from the Foundation and as a Domain Team,
- We would offboard Mariano and Onboard Wil in the same month. In practice the deadline for the next cycle is September 9th. Looks doable if the Foundation stuff is sorted out within a week.
- Proposals (off and onboarding) need to be drafted and submitted.

## Other Topics

- Restructuring domain teams is in the works
- Removing or altering the base rates system
  - it becomes hard to be competitive with different collateral types

## Collateral Types

### August

- USDT
- PAXUSD

### September

- Link
- Comp
- PaxG
- Loopring

### October

- LEND
