# Mandated Actors Meeting

2020.10.20

## Participants

- LongForWisdom
- Lucas Manuel
- Charles St. Louis
- Brian McMichael
- Wil Barnes
- Amy Jung
- Chris Mooney
- Primož Kordež
- Juan Guillen

# Collateral Onboarding

## Collateral Types

### YFI & BAL

Will probably go out next week.

### PAXG

Risk will probably have it ready on Thursday.

### GUSD

Governance is the next step.
Poll and then executive vote.

### AAVE

As of today, AAVE can now be deposited and used as collateral in the Aave Market.
Risk can get working on it.

## Collateral Prioritization Framework

- Oracles' assessment is missing.
- Difficulty is sometimes grouped for different collateral types (if you solve one, you solve the group)
- Open discussion about making it better and making it public.
- Discussion about the weights
- [x] Juan to draft post and share it with the team before posting it on the forum

# Governance

## G&R Meeting

- Derek to present Portal
- Rates Group
- Collateral Onboarding Docs
- Liquidations 2.0 (high level)
- Maybe Gaunlet in the coming future (not this week)

## Polls

- GUSD
- PAXG
- No oracles

# Open Discussion

### Real-World Assets

Different approaches for both workstreams (6s + Centrifuge).

We still need an assessment from each Domain Team to move forward.

If the MIPs Governance Poll passes and so does the MIPs Executive Vote, the steps that follow are:

- Collateral assessments from the domain teams (risk, oracles, smart contracts)
- Once assessments are done, a Governance Poll will be queued up for the closest Monday (containing the suggested risk parameters - includes the debt ceiling)
- If the Governance Poll passes, an Executive vote can occur to make it all go live (will occur on a Friday within 30 days of the Governance poll passing)
- Domain work occurs (if not already completed by the domain teams or the proposing party)
- Executive goes live
