# Mandated Actors Meeting

2020.08.11

## Participants

- Mariano Conti
- Cyrus Younessi
- LongForWisdom
- Niklas Kunkel
- Wil Barnes
- Charles St. Louis
- Juan Guillen (notes)

# Notes

## Weekly Cycle Collateral Onboarding Week

PAXUSD and USDT to go up for executive vote before September's Governance cycle begins.

## Monetary Policy

Curve (yield farming) is launching in the next few days.

This could be either positive or negative.

Somebody with collateral on Maker might want to close their vault to put it on Curve.

A good example is WBTC.

Executive poll in the next few couple days.

## Collateral Types

### This Month Cycle

- USDT
- PAXUSD

### Next Month Cycle

- LINK: ready to go → waiting on risk evaluation
- COMP: ready to go.
- PAXG: maybe.

### Other Updates

- RenBTC is tricky from an oracles points of view. You could peg it to BTC, but that's not necessarily true.
- Mentioned: Enjin, Matic, Bancor, EURS (euro-backed stablecoin)

### ETH-B

Working on risk parameters.

The engineering team to work on it soon.

Should go through MIP12 + monthly cycle.

- smart contract assessment was commissioned for ETH if needed
- oracle should be good to go

### Other TrueTokens?

Other than TUSD seem quite small market cap, might not be high priority.

## Assessments

### Collateral Types

befitsandpiper has done community technical assessments and appears interested in doing more.

### Oracles

Could a community member do an oracle assessment?

Oracle is not the bottleneck at the moment, and could be scaled up quite quickly.

## Uniswap LP Tokens

Using the on-chain Uniswap values would require us to make a bespoke smart contract which will be challenging from a security and maintenance point of view.

Using an API to query the Uniswap data, for example a subgraph, would be placing centralization risk in the owner of the API.

A more generalized solution is preferred, though it will take a bit longer to implement.

## Next Week Governance

### MIP15: Dark Fix Mechanism

- Wil to let LFW know when he would like to do a MIP15 update throughout the month to prep for the FS of it in September.
- Next week’s call: final MIP15 presentation

## Miscellaneous

### LEND

We're in touch with Aave. Maybe they have something to share with us so we can start reviewing.

Also, Aave has mentioned they will shrink the supply. There will be less AAVE than LEND.
