# Mandated Actors Meeting

2020.11.17

## Participants

- LongForWisdom
- Lucas Manuel
- Wil Barnes
- Charles St. Louis
- Brian McMichael
- Amy Jung
- Chris Mooney
- Primož Kordež
- Nik Kunkel
- Juan Guillen

Once you've reviewed the document, please leave a note on your name (highlight + comment) saying you've done it, so we can keep track? Thanks!

# Collateral Onboarding

Reminder of Process: Evaluations + Polls + Executive.

## Collateral Types

GUSD went last week.

PAXG: will require more time than originally anticipated. It will not go out this year.

We might need to reshuffle the collateral types that are currently being analyzed to maximize the amount we get through before the end of the year.

Another factor we need to reconsider is gas-limit for a block for spells. We may not be able to deploy all the collateral types and modules we want in a single Executive Vote.

### Calendar: Target Dates

#### November 27th

Evaluations due:

- AAVE
- renBTC
- tBTC
- UNI

#### November 30th

Polls submission:

- AAVE
- renBTC
- tBTC
- UNI

#### December 4th

Evaluations due:

- ETH-DAI
- ETH-USDC
- ETH-WBTC
- MIP27: DC Instant Access Module
    - Risk Parameters by this date or before

#### December 11th

Submission:

- MIP27: DC Instant Access Module
- AAVE
- renBTC
- tBTC
- UNI

#### December 18th

Submission:

- ETH-DAI
- ETH-USDC
- ETH-WBTC (maybe)
- MIP13: Flashmint Module
- Real-World Assets

# Stablecoins Vaults

We need to start discussing about potential bad debt.

An interim solution could be to lower the Stability Fee to zero.

## PSM

Risk: we might be closing the incentives of arbitraging.

Will we get back the arbitrage market if we remove CR101%

We will need a Risk Assessment.

## Flashmint Module

Code looks fairly simple.

Can we get this done by the 18th of December?

Still to be determined by the community what ceiling (if any) to be set for the flashmint module as well as what (if any) fees.

## Negative Rates

From a risk perspective it might make sense.

Might be hard to implement from a technical point of view.

Has serious implications on how willing users are to hold Dai relative to other stablecoins.

Need further assessments.

# Real-World Assets

Target to to go out this year.

# MIP27: Debt Ceiling Instant Access Module

This could save time, especially during times where votes are less frequent.

Code should be straightforward.

Submission Target: December 11th

# Governance and Risk Meeting

Brief discussion about potential presenters.

### Collateral Onboarding Handbook

Charles ~ 10 minutes

### DSChief

Chris ~ 1 slide

# Polls

- Derek said that polls should be fine during migration.
- Greenlight polls running
