# Mandated Actors Meeting

2020.09.22

## Participants

- LongForWisdom
- Wil Barnes
- Charles St. Louis
- Primoz Kordez
- Amy Jung
- Christopher Mooney
- Brian McMichael
- Juan Guillen (notes)

# Notes

## G&R Meeting

- Devs from Comm-Dev - Badges

## New Collateral Onboarding Cycle

- Some useful stuff can be worked on already:
  - Prioritization Framework, for example.
- Do we keep this cycle until the end?
  - Ideally we'll put the polls up as soon as possible.
- Rolling two weeks, will give flexibility
  - depending on the size of the team and bandwidth, the velocity of onboarding might vary.

## Grantees Flow

- Current Flow (application)
- Interaction with Teams
- There should be a proposal of the work + the grant size
  - Short list description should be fine
- We need to make sure there's no conflict of interest
- Only domain facilitators should decide the direction of work
- When invoices are submitted, domain facilitator should be CCed and must be confirmed via email thread by the domain facilitator
- 60 Dai / hour is default
- Ideally teams should scope the project to scope the total cost

## Prioritization Framework

- Get a deadline?
- Who's going to manage it?
- How are the teams going to engage with it?
- We can add more columns as we improve.
- Google Sheets seems to be the way to go for the moment being.
  - Will lead to formulas to prioritize.

## MIP to change structure to from domain teams to facilitator

- Long has [submitted a MIP](https://forum.makerdao.com/t/mip23-domain-structure-and-roles/4021).
- The idea is that every team will have a team facilitator that names contributors.

## This meeting

- [ ] We should find some time that works for everyone where we could do a full hour instead of 30 minutes.
