# Mandated Actors Meeting

2020.12.08

## Participants

- LongForWisdom
- Lucas Manuel
- Wil Barnes
- Charles St. Louis
- Brian McMichael
- Amy Jung
- Chris Mooney
- Primož Kordež
- Juan Guillen

Once you've reviewed the document, please leave a note on your name (highlight + comment) saying you've done it, so we can keep track? Thanks!

# Collateral Onboarding

### Prioritization Sheet

Minor update to the sheet.

### Discussion of the timeline

[2020 Year End Schedule](https://forum.makerdao.com/t/2020-year-end-schedule/5218/)

AAVE / LP token potentially deferred for next year.

### New Testing Framework

Brian + Lucas are working with it.

### UNI

Naz put a PR on Kovan.

### AAVE

We might need to postpone it for next year. To be defined.

### renBTC

SamM prepared renBTC. Brief discussion about his access to be able to merge it.

## MIP21

Call this morning and reviewing corner cases. Testing happening.

We should have a small DC for testing. ~100 Dai.

## MIP22

Oracle assessment is not done yet; it won't be happening this year.

## Uniswap Oracle

We'll invite Kurt to take a look at it.

# Backlog

Domain Teams have enough on their plate (and will for some time). To avoid burnouts and managing expectations, we should keep MIPs longer in the RFC process.

### Showing / Reducing the Queue Ideas

- **Communicate queues / set expectations**
- Potential idea: require people to stake MKR to propose a MIP (potential reward).

# Polls next week

- Rates Proposal
- Surplus buffer if stability fees for stablecoins stay up.
- PSM Polls

# G&R Call

- No special topics for this one

# Next G&R Call (17.12)

- Charles to give a wrap-up 2020
