# Mandated Actors Meeting

2021.01.05

## Participants

- LongForWisdom
- Wil Barnes
- Charles St. Louis
- Brian McMichael
- Amy Jung
- Chris Mooney
- Primož Kordež
- Nik Kunkel
- Juan Guillen

# Collateral Onboarding

### Awaiting Executive

- PAXG
- RWA - 6S (MIP21)
- USDC-ETH LP Tokens

### LP Tokens and Liquidations - Schedule

Liquidations of LP tokens need to be done by experienced people, as tokens are not so easy to price.

Ideally we can integrate them with a low Debt Ceiling, and we raise it once that the audits come back.

- Kovan this week.
- Poll for WBTC-ETH LP Token on Monday.
- Potentially on the executive of Friday 22nd.

### MIP21 - Schedule

- Debt Ceiling
- Potentially on the executive of Friday 15th.

### MIP22 - Schedule

Some Oracles' work missing.

- Kovan on the 22nd.
- Executive on the 29th.

# Teams Discussion

## Smart Contracts Team - Current Bandwidth

3 experienced devs in the team (Lucas left, Kurt is leaving).

Right now, bandwidth is probably ~3 collateral onboarding + 1 MIP per week.

There's a need for automation and tooling as well.

## New Mandated Actors

Brief discussion about new members.

Brief discussion about the current and potential to-be process to onboard Mandated Actors.

# Coming MIPs

## KEG

We will need a MIP to be submitted.

Sam might be able to start working on it.

## DC-IAM

Brief discussion about topics related to the Instant Access Module.

### Risk

As of now, only whales can attack us, as it looks like the benefits outweighs the cost.

You would also need to have a position on all the other collateral types.

And we would have 48 hours to reverse it.

### Box

We probably should increase it.

Do we know if keepers can handle 15 Million today?

### Liquidations 2.0

This might be the real solution for lowering the risk.

# Audits

Backlog seems quite long. What is the strategy for the LP tokens?

How do we balance Product / Security / Risk?

Lev/Rain might be able to help.
