# Mandated Actors Meeting

2020.10.27

## Participants

- LongForWisdom
- Lucas Manuel
- Charles St. Louis
- Brian McMichael
- Amy Jung
- Chris Mooney
- Primož Kordež
- Nik Kunkel
- Juan Guillen

# Governance

## G&R Meeting

- Hugh from Nexus

## Polls

None this week.

# Collateral Onboarding

## Collateral Types

### YFI & BAL

Oracles to complete work this week.

Expected to be ready for this week's executive.

### GUSD & PAXG

Probably ready for the 13th. Maybe before.

### LP Tokens

The possibility to leverage yield is an attractive proposition to generate Dai.

Things to address:

- Oracles: most heavy lifting
- Keepers
- Smart Contracts: if there's no decomposition for auctions, it should be standard evaluation
- Risk: less volatility that pure ETH (in the ETH-stablecoin pairs)

Pilot is good to test for product-market fit.

Target date: end of November.

### AAVE / LEND & UNI

Unsure of how much Dai they will generate.

Less of a priority based on the Collateral Onboarding Frame.

## Collateral Factory

Smart Contracts can probably scale up.

Oracles will scale less in the short term.

## Costs (Oracle)

Some assets cost more to maintain (gas fees) than what they generate in fees.

This might not be an immediate problem, but should be considered in the long term.

## Collateral Prioritization Framework

- Oracles' assessment is missing. Nik was on leave.
- cTokens are becoming interesting again as *yield farming* goes down.
    - We're providing liquidity to secondary platforms;

## Real-World Assets

### Next Steps

- Domain teams to assess collateral assessments
- SIXS + multiple Centrifuge Assets
- Are all the legal risks being captured?
- Technical side will require heavy testing in Kovan
- Emergency Shutdown is an open question still

### Help from their Teams to move forward faster

6s + Centrifuge teams could help with:

- Integration Tests
- Liquidations
- Oracle Process
- Emergency Shutdown

Reviews are easier than composition.

# POAP - MakerDAO Contributor Q3.2020

Get your NFT by [filling out this form](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/1zrhmjJKWyVwIXwwzeESpjC82ReYPXW_qj4DFvnaUzPg/)! Pass it to your team!
