# Mandated Actors Meeting

2020.12.01

## Participants

- LongForWisdom
- Lucas Manuel
- Wil Barnes
- Charles St. Louis
- Brian McMichael
- Amy Jung
- Chris Mooney
- Primož Kordež
- Nik Kunkel
- Juan Guillen

# Collateral Onboarding

### Discussion of the timeline

[2020 Year End Schedule](https://forum.makerdao.com/t/2020-year-end-schedule/5218/)

There's a lot going on this month. We might want to prioritize some LP tokens over others.

We will be starting with ETH-Dai.

The others will be able to come soon later.

### AAVE

To be polled this week. Objective: 18th executive.

### RenBTC

The *mint()* function on renBTC is controlled by a single EOA.

Team has announced that they will be addressing these issues.

DC should probably not go over2M until the fixes come.

Communication needs to be clear.

## Parameters Definition by Domain Teams

This would allow teams to cover extra risk that's been identified.

For example, Smart Contracts or Oracles should be able to set more conservative parameters.

The most conservative of the suggestions would prevail (in the applied settings).

## Instant Flashmint Module

Debt Ceiling Adjustment: Risk and SC to align for parameters.

## YFI Vault - Raising DC

- Poll

Should we increase the Stability Fee?

Another option would be to create a new vault type with higher LR.

However, a new vault type needs new flips and joins, so it's like a new collateral type for the SC team in terms of work.

## MIP21

Spell done, testing.

# G&R Call

- Lucas on RWA Prioritization
