# Mandated Actors Meeting

2020.07.21

## Participants

- Mariano Conti
- Cyrus Younessi
- LongForWisdom
- Niklas Kunkel
- Wil Barnes
- Charles St. Louis
- Juan Guillen (notes)

# Notes

## 1. PSM Updates

Charles: Summary â†’ NOT implement it, 99% confirmed.

- The Foundation can't implement it, as it stands right now.
- Someone could use MIP13, Declaration of Intent to go do it themselves.

Main concern is that right now the poll is winning in favour.

- [ ] We're drafting a forum post to make it public, and then speak about it on the governance call.

## 2. Colleteral Onboarding

Charles: Some 20 minutes ago Mark Zellar (integrations lead at Aave) mentioned that they will upgrade the SC by the end of August.

The decision is up to the domain teams:

- Implement now and upgrade later
- Implement later.

Mariano: this is not an upgrade. It's a new token with a redeeming process.

Wil: just informed the team. There hasn't been a discussion yet. We could do both.

### **Implement Later**

Mariano: it will be more of a headache to try to get people to remove their LEND to change for AAVE, but maybe it will be fine. But we should be able to go ahead.

CSL: They want us to postpone. Mark Zellar (integrations lead at Aave) is not sure if it's ideal to move it efficiency-wise.

LFW: let's communicate it during R&G and let them decide?

### **Implement Now**

Cyrus: This affects the risk report a bit, as the tokenomics change. But a short revision should fix it.

Mariano: They're asking to wait, but we can ask if they want to wait for a specific reason.

**Tokenomics**

Mariano: The MKR migration is still ongoing. There's some 5% that hasn't migrated yet.

Cyrus: I doubt it will be faster, as the token is around 3 years old.

Mariano: also it might not get used immediately on our platform.

**Second Adaptor**

Nik: let's say we add it, and then they release the new token, are we able to move all the deposits that we have?

Mariano: we would have to maybe introduce a second adaptor, and check other things, but I think it's optional now?

Nik: it's all going to be about the new token.

**Oracle Work**

LFW: that probably affects the oracle as well.

Mariano: that's a good point.

Nik: I don't think so, as we can do as we do for WBTC-BTC and we treat them the same. I'm thinking that once that migration happens, we will have two ilks for the same tokens, so we might want to do some kind of migration that interacts with the redeemer.

Mariano: we would need to create an upgradeable new adaptor before. One that takes two different Gems. 100 LEND and 1 AAVE, as that's a split.

**High Cost - Low Reward**

Nik: it sounds like a pain in the a\$\$ for only 1M.

Mariano: you still need to maintain the oracle, the liquidations, I'm more of the idea of waiting. We were going to have a low debt ceiling.

Nik: liquidations will be a problem. It is redeemable, but this is an edge case for someone to build it.

### Decision

CSL: end of August is not too far away. Let's wait.

Mariano: we can ask if they have the code ready to get a headstart.

Nik: do we want to implement in September or wait until October?

LFW: Let's worry about that in the future.

## 3. MIP17 Working Group Call

- [ ] Charles: I'll schedule it and work with the community to go forward.

## 4. Domain Greenlights

**Assets**

- Cyrus: August 5th is the deadline we have confirmed:
- LINK
- LOOPRING
- and TBC stablecoins
- Cyrus: we were going to try to circle back on the PSM discussion. Now that's off the table, should we reconsider the others? Last week it was descoped.
- Nik: community might give us a second lashing for including more centralized assets, but since there won't be PSM...
- LFW: but also diversifying risk is good.

**Help from other Teams**

- Mariano: if it's going to be a couple new tokens you could get someone fro the team to help.
- Wil: we should gt another teammate if there's a bottleneck.
- Cyrus: I think one should be fine.
- Mariano: LINK is standard ERC20 for what I remember. Same with LOOPRING. The other two are probably upgradeable proxy tokens. They're quite standard. It should be almost mechanical now. If they fall into our adaptors, then it should be fine.

## 5. Polls This Week

LFW: we have

- Base Rates
- We'll skip LEND, as per previous discussion.

## 6. Governance and Risk Meetings (future agendas)

- [ ] Wil to discuss **LEND** during Thursday's call
- [ ] Charles (or Rune) will provide update regarding the **PSM** on the channel about who's going to speak on the call and make sure everyone's aware.
- Compensation plan - by Monet Supply
