# Mandated Actors Meeting

2020.11.24

## Participants

- LongForWisdom
- Lucas Manuel
- Wil Barnes
- Charles St. Louis
- Brian McMichael
- Amy Jung
- Chris Mooney
- Primož Kordež
- Nik Kunkel
- Juan Guillen

# Structure of this call

Structure can good, but we should still have free form where we can discuss topics.

An output as Chris posted last week is ideal.

As size increases, we might need to look for different ways.

# Collateral Onboarding

### Discussion of the timeline

[2020 Year End Schedule](https://forum.makerdao.com/t/2020-year-end-schedule/5218/)

## YFI Vault - Raising DC

The YFI team needs the oracle for vault strategies. The automation implies less risk (compared to manually monitoring a vault).

After increasing the debt ceiling, a big chunk of 'space' has been quickly filled. We might want to further raise the debt ceiling.

For Risk: how comfortable are we with the high volatility of the token (despite the automation)?

For Governance: a Signal Request needed.

**Note:** The migration is freezing DC raises, as it's not ideal to combine this executive with anything else.

# Real-World Assets

### 6S Capital

Risk team: will publish an assessment this week.

Oracles team: will publish an assessment this week.

Smart Contracts: will probably also publish the assessment this week, maybe next.

Implementation assessment will still be pending.

### Centrifuge

Can SC review this PR?: [https://github.com/makerdao/mips/pull/115](https://github.com/makerdao/mips/pull/115)

# Stablecoins Vaults

## PSM <> Flashmint Module

It will probably be one or the other. There might not be time to do either.

## PSM

There are different views about complexity. Might be similar to the DSS Chief.

It's a privileged adaptor.

From a risk point of view it's similar to a new collateral type.

We might want to make sure that the code is rock-solid in the form of formalized audits and not set a precedent about allowing non-standard unaudited code into the protocol that can mint Dai.

[https://vote.makerdao.com/polling/QmatZKgo?network=mainnet#vote-breakdown](https://vote.makerdao.com/polling/QmatZKgo?network=mainnet#vote-breakdown)

## Interest Rates to 0%

A yes/no poll will be posted to clarify the sentiment.

# Governance and Risk Meeting

No call this week.

# Polls

- Oracle whitelisting for YFI
- Onboarding polls for Aave, UNI, RenBTC
