# Mandated Actors Meeting

2020.12.15

## Participants

- LongForWisdom
- Lucas Manuel
- Wil Barnes
- Charles St. Louis
- Brian McMichael
- Amy Jung
- Chris Mooney
- Primož Kordež
- Nik Kunkel
- Juan Guillen

# Collateral Onboarding

### Standard GemJoin

Aave + Uniswap LP Tokens will use it.

### MIP21

Wil is working on it.

### SushiSwap - potential collateral type

Brief discussion about pros / cons / risks / mechanisms to onboard the IOU token as a collateral type.

# Spells & Code

## Current

### Rate Proposals

We're looking at 10 rate changes.

This might become a challenge in the future (gas prices + limits).

Moving forward (2021), there might be options to explore with the debt ceiling instant access module and automatic changes.

### PSM

Coordination with Sam and different ways to cast the spell.

## Upcoming

### Keg

Payments and funding is crucial to fund the pieces coming into the DAO.

Keg probably needs to move up in priority. Potentially before MIP22.

There are still some design decisions to be made. Lucas [has been working on it](https://forum.makerdao.com/t/flapperdistributor-a-way-to-distribute-system-surplus-while-minimizing-governance/4591/), and could potentially tackle this part-time after leaving the Foundation.

### MIP22 + MIP30

General discussion.

We will need to start prioritizing MIPs as we've been doing it with the Collateral Onboarding, as some MIPs might have more of a positive impact on the DAO.

### Liquidations 2.0 + DSS Gov

Liquidations 2.0 is coming. We're working on getting audits.

DSS Gov. deprioritized for Q2.

# 2021

## Smart Contracts Engineers leaving

Kurt is leaving beginning of next year.

Lucas Manuel is leaving this month.

This will increase the pressure on the current team.

## Setting Expectations

We should clearly communicate expectations about bandwidth and potential output of the teams (especially Smart Contracts, since they will they currently have to onboard some new engineers.

# G&R Call

- Charles to give a wrap-up 2020
