# Mandated Actors Meeting

2020.09.29

## Participants

- LongForWisdom
- Lucas Manuel
- Charles St. Louis
- Primož Kordez
- Amy Jung
- Christopher Mooney
- Brian McMichael
- Nik Kunkel
- Juan Guillen (notes)

# Notes

## Prioritization Spreadsheet

- Both initiatives (spreadsheets from Juan and Chris) have been merged
- Comments on progress and next steps
- [x] Chris to set meeting to keep things moving

## Team Updates

- Ideally we could have the updates post on the forum from each team
- [ ] All teams to send the bullet points (updates to Long) so he can create an update post

## Collateral Types Updates

### LEND

- They're migrating right now.
- Oracles need to review it.
- Risk worked on it before, but the contracts are new, tokenomics are new.
  - As soon as migration finishes Risk can start.

### PAXG

- It's a good idea to include uncorrelated assets.
- It's a new adaptor. We need to account for the fees (on transfer).

### YFI

- Oracle assessment is ready.
- From SC, it looks quite straightforward.

### BAL

- Oracle assessment is ready.
- From SC, it looks quite straightforward.

### UNI

- [ ] Primož is proposing it (will work with LongForWisdom to submit it).
- From SC, it looks quite simple.
  - Similar to COMP.
- Oracle assessment to be done.

### renBTC/tBTC

- A possibility in the medium term
- Different volumes & risk types

### GUSD

- Has proxy
- No blacklist (they can add one, but not there yet)
- Low liquidity and not widespread usage for now
- Provides diversification

## MIP25: Flash Mint Module

- Declaration of Intent has passed
- The technical solution would have to go through the November cycle

## Budgeting

- Domain teams to be kept as autonomous as possible
  - Structure
  - Organization
- Foundation to support and help put out the resources
- Amy to present Sep 30, 2020 and ask one by one the needs

## Integrations Team - Charles

- Goal is to create the ultimate learning manual for getting started with collateral onboarding work in the governance, risk, oracles, and smart contracts domains (live documents)
- 2-week sprint
- Provide documentation incentives
- Meetings with
  - SC
  - Oracles
  - Risk
- Walkthrough
- Recording + Notes
- Guides to be published
- Resources for grantees
