## Determine what course of action you would take as a Governance Facilitator and communicate it clearly

1. Draft and post a forum reply to Clive, including:
     - Reference to the Atlas stating the responsibility of Governance Facilitators to address any potential risk of operational security breach.
     - Reasoning on why materials provided by Diane have been considered sufficient for reasonable suspicion of operational security breach.
     - Explanation on why a community poll is applicable/ necessary to decide if the materials provided by Diane constitute sufficient evidence that the operational security of Clive has been compromised.
     - Indication that the poll will be submitted for voting on July 31 and reinstate that it will only happen if no additional, decisive evidence is presented. 

2. Draft and post a forum reply to Diane, including:
    - Statement that the poll passing vote is not equivalent to the approval for bounty payment.
    - Reference to the Atlas stating that the whistleblower is entitled to half of the AD Buffer, but only if a set of conditions are met.
    - Indication that these conditions are still being evaluated.

3. Post the poll on July 31, if no new and decisive evidence appears by then.
4. If the poll passes:
    - Remove Clive from Recognized Delegates
    - Post a poll to let community decide if Diane is entitled to the bounty. I would precede this with a forum post explaining that, as per the Atlas, the criteria for bounty payment is the "responsible delivery of useful information". If Clive is derecognized, it means that the community decided that the information provided by Diane was useful. It would then be for the community to decide if the information was also provided in a responsible manner. 
        - As a side note, I don't think this should be voted on at all, especially that this "condition" in the Atlas is rather underdeveloped. But, if we run a vote on the validity/ sufficiency of the evidence provided by Diane, we should keep all related decisions with the Community.

5. If the poll passes, pay out the bounty to Diane.