## Clive Derecognition Poll


```
Author: You
Date: Monday 24th July 2023
```

@Clive, as per [MIP101 2.6.6.1.](https://mips.makerdao.com/mips/details/MIP101#2-6-6-1) the Governance Facilitators "must err on the side of caution" when the operational security of an AD is questioned. The materials provided by Diane raise sufficient suspicion in that they:
(here I'd provide the conclusions from analysis of the evidence post).
That being said, the Governance Facilitators have not reached a consensus on whether the evidence provided is conclusive enough. This, and the public character of Diane's post, led to the decision to leave the final judgement to the Community. Ultimately, they are the voters you are representing as an AD, and their trust is the foundation of your role. 

```
Author: You
Date: Monday 24th July 2023
```

@Diane, the decision to derecognize an AD is not equivalent with the payout of the whistleblower bounty. As per [MIP101 2.6.6.](https://mips.makerdao.com/mips/details/MIP101#2-6-6-aligned-delegate-operational-security), half of the AD's Buffer could be confiscated and used as a whistleblower bounty, but only if determined conditions are met. The poll on derecognizing Clive will be the first step in evaluation of these conditions.

## Diane Whistleblower Bounty Poll

```
Author: You
Date: Thursday 3rd August 2023
```

As per [MIP101 2.6.6.](https://mips.makerdao.com/mips/details/MIP101#2-6-6-aligned-delegate-operational-security), a whistleblower is entitled to half of compromised AD's bounty if their information is:
1. Useful for determining that the operational security of an AD was compromised.
2. Provided in a responsible manner.

With the [Poll](https://vote.makerdao.com/polling) the governance decided that the materials provided by Diane in this [forum post](https://forum.makerdao.com/t/)constituted sufficient evidence that the operational security of Clive AD had been compromised. 

Next Monday, August 8, we will be putting up a poll asking the Community to judge on whether Diane provided those materials and argued her case in a responsible manner, and should therefore be awarded the whistleblower bounty.